> **_IMPORTANT_**
>
> This post is part of a longer series.
> It is advised to at least read the disclaimer on the [intro post](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/).
> As posts are mostly in chronological order and can reference past posts it is highly recommended to read them in order
> starting on the [intro post](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/).

The most magical place on earth is your own mind.
In it exist endless possibilities, things you can only dream of.
You spend every second of your life with the thoughts inside your head.
Some may be better than others, but you still have to live with them.
So why not make the best of your mind?
That's exactly what I did - at least to some extent - and as hinted towards
in [3. New beginnings - new chances?](/blog/2023-02-06-mental3/) I'm going to talk about it.

But what exactly is _it_?
Well, my fantasy world of course!
But before you get all excited about fairytales and magic let me break this to you:
My fantasy world is like the world we live in, just with a few adaptations to history and geography.
While I find stuff like magic and superpowers cool, I'm more fascinated by the world humans have created.
You should know by now that technology interests me, so my fantasy world is just the adaptation of how I'd like the real
world to be.
Well... sort of at least.

For the most part the world looks pretty much the same as it does in real life.
The closer we get to my home-town the more it looks differently.
Here is an overview of the major changes:

* My home-town is Austria's second-largest city, with a population of around 410k
* It also serves as the main headquarters of the EU and the WU (world union - a fictional organisation, partnered with
  UNO)
* The near east looks a lot different and is more peaceful
    - I'd draw a map, but I sadly don't have the skills to do so - so text will have to suffice
    - At the south tip of the arabian peninsula lays the Republic of Jemen - a former kingdom, then british colony, now
      highly advanced democratic nation
    - To the north is Saudi Arabia - pretty much unchanged, just more friendly
    - To the east of Saudi Arabia exists the UAE, Oman and Qatar - not much else to say here
    - North of Saudi Arabia is the Republic of Tigris - a similar story to Jemen, just way bigger and less advanced
    - It covers roughly the area of Jordan, Syria and Iraq of our real world
    - To the west of Tigris is, from north to south: Turkey and Iraq
    - To the west of Iraq is Iran and to the west of that Israel / Palestine
    - To the north of Tigris is Russia
    - To the north-east of Tigris is Afghanistan
    - All other countires that lay in that area in the real world do not exist
* World War 2 lastet from 1965 to 1975
* During WW2 Germany conquered all of Europe (except Switzerland), Africa and most of western Asia
* The Cold War lastet from 1975 to 2000
* All eastern european countries, apart from East Germany, were eventually annexed by the Soviet Union
* The Soviet Union dissolved in 2000
* Italy was split into north and south from 1975 to 1980 (similarly to Germany)
* Asia had a big war in 2014 started by the Republic of Tigris (which collapsed into a dictatorship a little prior)

Without getting too out of hand (well, I think it already did, woopsie) I'm gonna stop with the list there.
As you can see, there are a lot of changes.
I left out pretty much everything concerning my home-town.
There are a lot of details that would be boring to go into.
But I do think that I have designed a city in my head that could actually, realistically exist like that in the real
world.
One thing you might notice is that a lot of detail was put into the arabian peninsula.
I can't actually remember exactly why I chose this part of the world, but I just needed a place where I can experiment
on a country rather than city level.

The story there focuses on history and development of infrastructure for the most part.
Jemen is my personal pride because there are a lot of details about the country.
From the history of being a progressive kingdom, to being invaded by Britain and turned into a semi-sovereign colony, to
gaining independence just after WW2 ended in 1979 to being one of the most advanced countries on earth today.
It is also my playground for politics and voting systems.
A brief summary:

* The country is divided into 9 counties - each with their own county president and government
* The country itself has its own president and the government consists of the county governments
* Terms last for four years, with all presidents being elected at the same time and two years later the governments
* Presidents can serve for two terms max

I'm not a political expert and this system probably has a lot of flaws, but I'd like to think that it's not too bad.
I'm finishing off this very short and brief venture into my brain by letting you in on what's currently going on in my
little world right now.
Jemen is currently undergoing massive public transport construction, automating the entire railway network.
Most of the work has already been completed, the majority of unfinished projects lays within the capital city and
surrounding areas.
In Tigris the city of Bagdad in the north of the country is finally getting a new airport.
This also leads to new railway construction in order to finally link the airport to the nations railway network.
Back home in Austria I haven't been in ages and there is nothing of interest going on.
I sort of finished the city for now and don't feel the need to touch anything.

And to finish off with one last important question: Do I or the people I know in real life exist in this world?
Yes, they do, to some extent.
Since I'm not spending any time anymore in my home-town there isn't really a lot to go into.
Most of what my life has been about in recent years does not play a role in my fantasy world and therefore the people
also don't exist for the most part.
I, on the other hand, do exist in my own world.
In fact: I am so narcissistic that I exist twice!
And because I find it hilarious to not give you any more details, I shall end this post here.
Have fun thinking about what the two of me are doing.
See you in the next post - back on the main timeline - where we take a big dive.
Let me tell you this much: I'm not proud about what's to come and you will be introduced to the worst version of me that
has ever existed.
Anyway, byeeee!