> **_DISCLAIMER_**
>
> These posts are based on my personal experience and opinions.
> I am not a professional and therefore some of my opinions / advice may not fit you or might even be objectively bad.
> **If you are in need of help visit a professional.**
> Most posts will be about events that have happened a lot of years ago.
> I may recall them differently or alter them slightly for plot convenience.
> Any names mentioned are made up.
> May you continue at your own discretion.

"Hi. Welcome to... whatever this is" as Bo Burnham, one of my personal heroes, once said.
Don't expect anything on this level though, I'm just a random white boi writing about his life.
But one thing after another...

I'm Lukas and at the time of beginning this blog series 22 years, 6 months and 28 days old.
Oddly specific, I know, but I do like my useless details.
I've been struggling with mental health issues since the humble year of 2014.
Through these (currently) nine years I've spent most of my time hiding my issues behind a facade of laughter and jokes.
Only a select few people do know a bit more about my situation.
It is now time to put an end to this.

Inspired by writing something else and getting a lot of positive feedback (thank you - you know who you are!) I've decided to formulate my thoughts and feelings and create a blog out of them.
This has multiple benefits that I shall list in the following wondrous bullet-point list:

* Text creates distance in space - you don't need to get uncomfortable and share your feelings in person
* Text creates distance in time - you don't chat in real time, it's asynchronous
* Blogging creates distance in people - anyone can read it, not just people who you're close with
* I can try to be funny without getting immediate side-eyes for it

Speaking of funnies. It is my goal to make this experience as enjoyable as it can be.
A task that's a bit difficult given the topic at hand.
As stated above, jokes have been my main way of hiding my struggles.
I'm not a comedic genius, far from it (most of my jokes are only funny to me), but I' ll try my best.
Since this will be very personal and contain stuff that I'm not proud of / ashamed about I'll use jokes to make fun of myself.
This means that you don't have to do that, I already did it myself - isn't that great?

On a personal note however... As stated at the very beginning in the disclaimer:
This is my personal experience so far.
I have no idea what I'm talking about, so take everything with a grain of salt.
At the end of the day I'm just collecting my thoughts and sharing them with the Internet.

To whoever is reading this:
If you never come back again, that's totally understandable.
If this intro post made you interested, then I'd be happy to welcome you on my journey.
If you are struggling yourself, may these posts help you at least a tiny bit.
And for anyone here:
Reach out to someone who you like and let them know that you like them!
Do it, right now!
Not "maybe later" or in five minutes - **NOW**!
Just let them know that you care about them - give them a call, send them a lovely message or if they are next to you, stop staring at the screen and turn to them.
Because life is always better together and the downs are more bearable as well!
Continue reading after you've done that.

Welcome back!
I hope you didn't cheat.
Anyways... meta post done, almost.
Below you can find all posts in this series in chronological order.
The posts themselves will also portray my life in chronological order so if you're following along make sure not to miss any!
This list will of course be updated whenever new posts are released.
Thank you for reading and see you around **:)**

* _**[You are here]** 1. I, Lonely and the modern world_
* [2. An insignificant person in an insignificant town](/blog/2023-02-05-mental2/)
* [3. New beginnings - new chances?](/blog/2023-02-06-mental3/)
* [4. The plot thickens](/blog/2023-02-07-mental4/)
* [5. Dance with the reaper](/blog/2023-02-09-mental5/)
* [6. A small glimpse of hope](/blog/2023-02-09-mental6/)
* [7. Calm before the storm](/blog/2023-02-10-mental7/)
* [8. The world inside my head](/blog/2023-02-11-mental8/)
* [9. The deep dark](/blog/2023-02-11-mental9/)
* [10. Take a look in the mirror, you’ll see a bit clearer](/blog/2023-02-19-mental10/)