> **_IMPORTANT_**
>
> This post is part of a longer series.
> It is advised to at least read the disclaimer on the [intro post](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/).
> As posts are mostly in chronological order and can reference past posts it is highly recommended to read them in order
> starting on the [intro post](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/).

Relationships burned, single therapy session taken and a small intermission about FOMO and now we are here.
This is the humble year of 2020 - when the world turned to shit.
Well, my world was already shit, so how much worse can it get?
The elephant in the room is of course Covid.
But for me, I have to say that this initial first wave did not really affect me.
It actually was really nice, but we'll get to that!

In January, I started my civil service.
In Austria every male person has to do either six months of military service or nine months of civil service.
Since I refuse violence and gun usage I opted for the longer civil service.
I worked in one of the largest hospitals in the country.
Us civil servants were part of the patient transport team - the staff moving patients around in the hospital for
appointments.
It was quite scary to have to endure this for nine months, but it turned out more okay than expected.
I still remember my first day however:
At the end of the day I took the elevator to the top floor where our changing rooms were and I started crying.

We had to work for 45h per week, walking around the entire day, moving patients with wheelchairs or their entire beds.
This was physically and mentally exhausting.
And that was exactly what I needed.
It helped me get rid of all my energy so that I did not have any left over to think about K.
I basically started coping with my feelings by ignoring them and working all the time.
This is very unhealthy - but I could not do anything against it since work was not voluntary.
Back then I thought that this was a very helpful phase to get back on track but now I know that I have just suppressed
my problems instead of working on them.

Now back to Covid.
Since we where civil servants we could not be fired due to lockdown.
We had to stay in service.
But because the hospitals were shut down to protect them we did not have any work.
This meant that we got to hang out with each other, not having much to do, while everyone else had to stay at home.
The first lockdown was by far the best time of my entire service.
However, the last few months were even more exhausting than ever before.
This was due to the fact that staff has been fired and because all the patients who where waiting for their operations
had to be rescheduled.
Therefore, the summer months were extremely stressful.
On the flip side: I applied for university and got accepted, which was great, especially since I previously had no
desire in attending university.
But how this turned out will be a story for a future post.

I really enjoyed working in such a large hospital.
There were a few downsides to this of course but overall I found it fascinating.
A big shout-out to the cardiology department!
Every week one civil servant would be solely responsible for the cardiology operating room - bringing patients to/from
the operating room.
For me this was always a great pleasure since the team there was really nice and because I found the technology behind
it fascinating.
It was, however, also one of the most stressful things when there is an emergency and a patient's life is (at least
partially) in your hands.

Rounding off this shorter post is a little fun fact.
Every day I walked about 20km on average.
In the nine months of my service I walked a total of 2,353.64 km.
This distance is (almost) equivalent to walking from my hometown in Austria to

* Ankara, Turkey
* Porto, Portugal
* Trondheim, Norway
* Moscow, Russia

So, needless to say, I walked a lot.
And I used two pairs of sneakers too.
Anyway... That's it - a shorter one this time.
Next time we will be diving into the beginnings of university.
And for the most part this has been a very positive time in my life.
See ya!