> **_IMPORTANT_**
>
> This post is part of a longer series.
> It is advised to at least read the disclaimer on the [intro post](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/).
> As posts are mostly in chronological order and can reference past posts it is highly recommended to read them in order
> starting on the [intro post](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/).

> **_TRIGGER WARNING_**
>
> This post is about death, suicide and self-harm.
> If any of these topics are triggering to you it is recommended to not read this post.
> **If you have any struggles or thoughts about these topics please seek professional help.**
> A link to get you started: [Suicide Prevention Hotline](https://www.google.com/search?q=suicide+prevention+hotline)

No matter what you do, how you life your life or what decisions (good or bad) you make there is one great equalizer in
life: _death_.
While most people die at an old age due to natural causes, there are cases where this is not true.
Every death is tragic and causes trauma for the people left behind.
But I'd like to argue that a unnatural death is always just a bit more tragic than a natural one.
A lot of pain and trauma goes into a person deciding to end their own life.
In this post I want to share my own "dance with the reaper".

Being alone, depressed and isolated is not a great way to life your life.
When it seems like everything you try and do only leads to more negative stuff you start to lose perspective.
That is until your new perspective is ending it all.
After all, what's left to lose at this point?
Quite a lot actually, but mental illness has a way of gas-lighting yourself into thinking that there is absolutely
nothing left.
"There are people who would miss you" - nope, they would just move on with their lives.
"But they would be in deep pain" - I'm just a burden, waisting their time. They'll get over it quickly.
"They deeply care about you and your well-being" - well why weren't they there for me then?

Because they didn't know...
Communication is key in everything.
If you cannot communicate your thoughts and feelings to others then they can't understand what's going on.
Misunderstandings can happen very quickly and small ones can turn into big dramas and fights very quickly.
I've put on a facade of happiness, jokes and laughter my whole life.
Nobody knew, at the time, that I was suffering greatly.
So why would anyone rush to my help and talk to me?
The hardest thing with any problem you have is being honest about it.
Honest with yourself and honest with others.
And even if you can't put into words what you're currently going through at least push yourself into saying the
following: _I'm not doing good._

As you can probably imagine, this is _not_ what I did.
I convinced myself that nobody in the world, not even my family, gives a fuck about me.
If I was suddenly gone, everyone would just move on with what they are doing.
Therein lies the key: Being gone.
Not necessarily dead, but rather just gone.
The following will be very brief and my only ever mention of this:
I thought about actual suicide maybe once or twice in my life.
But the thought of actually ending my life was more scary than continuing it.
I'm not going into further detail, that's all you get.
Apart from one last thing: After that I've never had any thoughts again that even had remotely something to do with
suicide.
I'm fine, you do not need to worry!

Suddenly disappearing however was a way more intriguing idea.
A thought experiment emerged that would not leave me for quite a while.
What if I faked my own death and either

1. Observe how the others reacted..
2. OR.. get a new identity and move far away

I started doing some research online about faking one's death and getting new identities.
I don't remember that much since it has been a few years now, but it wasn't as easy as I first imagined it to be.
An interesting part of it all was "attending my own funeral".
This thought always fascinated me because it would reveal the reactions of others.
Also, the curiosity of who / how many people would attend my funeral was quite big.
Taking the second option above (moving away) gave me the hope of starting a new, fresh life.

Eventually the positive facade of all of this started to fade away.
The logistics behind it were too complicated.
Starting a new life also had the same core difficulties of my current life: I had no-one close to me who would support
me.
And I'd lose my progress in academia.
There is, however, something that sort of stuck with me until this day.
You can be gone in a different way: Not being able to attend day-to-day life due to medical reasons.
I started imagining myself getting hurt (like a car accident or heart attack or something like that).
No matter the actual cause, it would have to end with me being in hospital.
This would show how much others would worry / care about me and my well-being.

At the time of writing this I still have these thoughts from time to time.
I cannot determine if it has gotten better or not but I'm confident that it hasn't gotten worse.
I'm glad that I live a very healthy physical life and I'd like it to stay that way.
This is about all that I wanted to say about this topic.
I cannot stress one point enough: **If you have any struggles of your own, seek professional help.**
The next post will continue our main story after this small intermission.
As a finishing exercise for this one I want you to get in contact with someone you're close with but maybe haven't
spoken to in a while.
Check in with them, ask them how they're doing.
You never know if someone is in need and they just haven't told you themselves.
See you in the next post, take care and stay safe!