> **_IMPORTANT_**
>
> This post is part of a longer series.
> It is advised to at least read the disclaimer on the [intro post](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/).
> As posts are mostly in chronological order and can reference past posts it is highly recommended to read them in order
> starting on the [intro post](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/).

Onwards on the main timeline of our story.
After a small intermission in [5. Dance with the reaper](/blog/2023-02-09-mental5/) we are now back on track.
As mentioned at the very end of [4. The plot thickens](/blog/2023-02-07-mental4/) I discovered two people at the end of
the summer break.
These two people are no other than Bo Burnham and Simon Sinek.

Let's start with Bo.
He is a comedian/musician/writer/actor/director whatever... creative genius.
I admire him since the day I discovered him.
Well, that's not actually 100% accurate.
Story time!
By searching for a different song on YouTube I found a small excerpt from his program "what." in the search results.
It was the very ingenious song "Sad".
I noticed that it was part of a longer, one hour long stand-up special and decided to watch it.
I wasn't frilled by what I saw and clicked off pretty much immediately.
However, part of me was curious, so eventually after some time I remembered him and decided to watch the video for real.
And I'm very glad that I did.
Words cannot describe how funny and genius I find him.

Enough Bo praise for now though, this is about me after all.
I was inspired by him a lot though and decided to start a project of my own.
It was called "I, Lonely and the modern world", seems
familiar? ([1. I, Lonely and the modern world](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/))
It started out as an album, developed into a live-stand-up program eventually was turned into a movie before being an
album again.
To this day the ideas are still floating around.
In fact there are currently 17 song ideas, ranging from finished title, lyrics and melody in my head to just a vague
idea.
Since the very beginning I had an album cover in my head that I think would still be fitting today.
I shall keep it a secret though in case I ever get around to actually turning this into a real thing.
It will probably never happen though, because I started working on another album at a later point in time and some of
the more concrete songs got transferred to that.
But that's a story for a future post.

The second person I mentioned is Simon Sinek.
He is an author that focuses on optimism.
At the time of writing he has
the [4th most viewed Ted-talk of all time](https://www.ted.com/talks/simon_sinek_how_great_leaders_inspire_action).
It about "start with why".
To give a basic summary (please watch it!):
Communication happens on three layers: what, how and why - the "golden circle".
Everyone knows what they are doing, most know how they are doing it but only a few know why.
Rationality is part of the what and how - we can express ourselves with facts and figures.
Emotions and feelings are part of the why - we struggle with finding words for this.
Whenever we cannot explain a reason we tend to say that "it just felt right" or that it's a "gut feeling".
The important part is finding your why - why are you doing or believing what you are.

You can have a personal why - why do you exist, what is your purpose?
Great companies can and should have a why as well - why is this company even existing?
Once you find your why you can adapt your life in a way to life a happy and fulfilled life.
How can you find your why?
Great question!
Simon developed the [friends exercise](/posts/blog/friends_exercise.pdf).
Basically go through this PDF and start experimenting around.
I'll continue on with my story in the meantime.
I found my passion in teaching others - something I've hinted towards
in [3. New beginnings - new chances?](/blog/2023-02-06-mental3/).
I like explaining things and sharing my passion about learning with others.

With all of that out of the way, let's continue onwards through the fourth school year.
I regained my passion for programming again.
This is mainly due to the fact that I stopped working on big projects.
Another factor is that, for the first time, I was learning something new in school, in regard to software development.
In late fall I got the chance to give a presentation about company psychology and you bet your ass that I talked about
Simon Sinek.
To this day I think that this was one of the coolest presentations I ever gave.
I'm still proud about myself.

Other than that the school year went by without too much to mention.
With my passion for programming slightly regained and a moral boost from Bo and Simon on my side I started to improve a
bit.
I also got closer to one of the girls in my class.
For the sake of anonymity, as mentioned in the main disclaimer, we shall be simply referring to her as "K" .
It was very slow but we got accustomed to each other which was a nice and welcoming change for me.
At the end of the school year the summer break was lingering.
The last week of school was a summer-sport-week.
We had a lot of fun there together but the last day for me was overshadowed by the thought of isolation during the
break.
To my own surprise I kept in contact with K a bit which helped a lot.
On my 18th birthday I got an acoustic guitar.
The only thing to mention here is: I did not know how to play and still cannot play until this very day that I'm writing
this.
Well... I can play two songs.

With the summer break coming to a close, so is this post.
Why do I keep reusing this phrase??
Anyway... I was exited to be back in school and the break wasn't as bad as previous ones.
For a small periode of time I was just a tiny bit optimistic.
But as my tone might indicate, this was not of permanence.
In fact, we will be going on a roller coaster pretty soon, that will turn my life upside down and make it even worse
than it was before.
But you'll just have to wait and see - Toodles!