> **_IMPORTANT_**
>
> This post is part of a longer series.
> It is advised to at least read the disclaimer on the [intro post](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/).
> As posts are mostly in chronological order and can reference past posts it is highly recommended to read them in order
> starting on the [intro post](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/).

It has been a week since I wrote the last post.
Getting this series started and constantly writing post after post was quite exciting.
It also helped a lot with getting comfortable with myself.
However, it also started draining me.
And so I took a break from it!
This actually fits quite nicely with our story.
We finished off the last post with me losing both of my closest friends, K & A.
To say that I was devastated is an understatement.
But in the coming months I would have time to reflect and improve.
Let's get started!

With the summer coming to an end new challenges arose.
I was finished with school, my civil service would not start until January and my internship I did in August is now also
over.
And I did what I could do best: Block off the outside world and stay inside until January.
The fact that Covid started not long after that, meaning we were _forced_ to stay inside, is a little bit funny now in
hindsight.
I spent my days just existing pretty much.
In some way it was a nice break from everything.
But it definitely did not help in the grand scheme of things.
I started self-reflecting on what had happened in the months prior.
This lead to old pain resurfacing but overall it started to get better, slowly.
At the end of summer I promised that I would seek professional help.
But that did not happen, at least not for a while.

I wasn't actually all alone.
Let me introduce you to O & B, male.
O and I attended the same school (before this one) for a few months before he changed schools.
We eventually found ourselves in the same class again back in 2014 when we started in this school.
While a bit awkward at first we became "friends" fairly quickly.
I am using quotations here because I would not consider him a friend until the last year of school.
B on the other hand is someone who I only got closer with in the last two years - where we were seat neighbors.
And let me tell you: Those two years together have been some of the funniest times in my life!
He also helped me in August when I was at my lowest.
And I will never forget what he said to me to cheer me up, but sadly I cannot write this here because no english
translation would do that moment justice.

Anyway...
Those two got to know a bit more about my struggles after the summer.
I also stayed in contact with J a bit, but her being in the USA was not beneficial for that.
In early November the school's open day happened and - as is tradition for alumni - I attended.
It was great seeing everyone again, but that also meant seeing K & A.
We did not talk that much with each other and it was a bit awkward.
But I managed to get through it.
It was, however, another reminder that I _had_ to do something, because I cannot continue living my life this way.

And so I did it.
I took the advice that I have been giving throughout this whole series: I went to a professional.
Through a recommendation of a family member I wrote an e-mail to a psychologist and I got an appointment.
So here we are in mid-December 2019 - 19/12/19 to be exact.
Side-note / fun-fact: One of my songs, that might or might not see the light of day, is called exactly that and is about
that experience.
The title is also a little homage to 16/04/16 by Cavetown - but we will talk about him in a future post.
So I went to a psychologist after being scared to do so for over half a year.
And let's get this out of the way immediately: After this one session I never went again because I was still too scared
to do so.

While one visit is not a full diagnosis (please be better than me and actually stay in therapy!), it was still a start.
It revealed two major things for me:

* I have a fear of rejection
* I have bonding/trust issues

The first one is my main problem.
It manifests itself in various different ways.
It is the reason why I don't have (many) friends, why I have never been in a relationship, why I get anxiety when being
in public or when meeting new people.
It is always this inner fear of doing/saying something wrong, being made fun of, etc.
It's all part of being rejected in some way or another.
This pairs nicely (or badly, however you want to look at it) with my second main problem.
When in a relationship (platonic or romantic) I have issues with trusting others.
I am always doubting myself if someone actually likes me and cares about me or if they are just being nice.
This often leads to behaviour where I am belittling myself and saying self-deprecating stuff just to see if someone
actually cares about me.
This also plays together with my self-harm thoughts/dreams I talked about
in [5. Dance with the reaper](/blog/2023-02-09-mental5/).

This single appointment may not have been enough to actually "cure" me.
But it certainly helped a lot!
It gave me a good first understanding of what was going on inside my head.
And it was the foundation for where to go from here in terms of self-reflecting.
And that's it for this installment in the series.
Next up: Another intermission post about a topic that fits in quite nicely with my core issues.
See ya!