> **_IMPORTANT_**
>
> This post is part of a longer series.
> It is advised to at least read the disclaimer on the [intro post](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/).
> As posts are mostly in chronological order and can reference past posts it is highly recommended to read them in order
> starting on the [intro post](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/).

Life is full of experiences, good or bad.
The list of things you have experienced and the order you have experienced them in define who you are.
Different people have experienced different things, in different order.
This is a big factor in what makes us unique.
But sometimes the mind plays tricks on us and compares our experiences with those from others.
And it will quickly realize that we have not experienced something that another person has.
Suddenly we get confused, sad, angry... at ourselves.
This is a fear that sparks this reaction - a _fear of missing out (FOMO)_.
Let's dive a bit deeper into this topic and my story, shall we?

Early on in [3. New beginnings - new chances?](/blog/2023-02-06-mental3/) I first mentioned FOMO in regard to
consumption.
Specifically me not consuming alcohol, cigarettes or drugs.
As stated, I am happy about that but that has not always been the case.
Small reminder for context: Since this is an intermission post, what I am talking about here does not fit in
chronologically with the main story line.

During my depression times I especially felt FOMO on a regular basis.
Everyone else was going out together, drinking, having a good time.
And I was just sitting at home, all alone.
The consumption side actually never affected me too much - after all drinking a lot mostly just had bad side effects
that I did not care about anyway.
And I did not need any substances to get me in a good / happy mood (I mean, maybe medication would have helped my
depression but that's a different story).

The thought of others doing stuff together, without me, however, did affect me very much.
I have never been to a club in my life (at the time of writing this).
I just don't like the atmosphere of loud music, drunk people and sweat.
I'd rather just chill in peace and have a nice, chill get-together with others.
And yet, I still always got very sad when a group from class would go out to the club together.
To this day this still affects me a little, but I think that it has gotten _a lot_ better.
However, as a story from university shows: I wasn't even that close and certainly not friends (at least by my
definition) to the people in question and yet it still affected me, that a group got together and went drinking to the
club.
Even though FOMO is something that probably everyone can relate to in some way or another I still feel a bit ashamed /
awkward to admit this to myself and now the public.
But that's just how irrational fears work, I guess.
I have to mention a song here: Just add water - Cavetown.
It is still not time to talk about him, you have to wait for a future post.
But I can talk a bit more about the song.
It describes the hypocrisy of wanting to be with others and at the same time not wanting to go out.
I have rarely felt so understood by a song.

Moving on from consumption and socializing.
Now let's talk relationships.
If you have been an avid reader you probably know that I have never been in a romantic relationship.
Fun (or I guess sad) fact: This is still the case at the time of writing this.
You also probably know that I, in general, have never really been that close to anyone.
So given these two key factors, the following should also not be a surprise.
With every year that progresses, or with every birthday that I get older at, I experience more and more relationship
FOMO.
I rationally know that I should not stress about this stuff and that there are many other people, my age or even older,
who are the same.
But as we all know, when has rationality ever won over irrational fear?
I feel insecure, awkward and a bit ashamed to be almost 23 (at the time of writing this) and still not have had a
partner.
I'd like to think that I am quite a physical person.
I like being close to other people that I like, it gives me comfort.
So it breaks my heart to have never had someone in my life to actually get this comfort.
While I mean this literally (just being physically close and not more) I am also dancing around a few words and certain
topics right now, but if you can put two and two together you can probably figure out what I mean.
Openly speaking about this still makes me very uncomfortable, because this stuff still, sadly, is not openly discussed a
lot.
And so I will postpone this a little further to a future post.
But, to round this off in a more open way:
Part of my fear is that with more years passing by, that I will never be in a romantic relationship in my life.
This is also due to the fact that if I would meet someone, chances are that they have already experienced everything and
I haven't and that makes me a lesser partner or less attractive.
Which is an extremely stupid thought to have, because if someone would actually think that, then they are not even worth
your time.
But it still haunts me a bit.

Next up: Coping with FOMO through celebrities.
Now this might sound a bit weird or confusing at first but hear my out.
Whenever you are lacking something or belittling yourself for something it is always nice to find someone who is like
you.
Because then you don't feel as alone.
And if that someone else is popular then that is even better.
Because if someone who is just "as bad" as you and still popular, then there is hope for you, right?
Well I do believe that having (good) role models that you can look up and relate to is important and healthy.
But the outlined thought process can quickly be unhealthy and damaging to yourself.
For example: I would be happy to find someone "popular" on the internet who doesn't drink or is single or whatever.
It gives me the comfort that everything is alright and that I am normal.
The danger behind this is when that someone on the internet turns out to actually not be like that.
Then you suddenly feel a bit betrayed and upset, and it starts messing with your head a lot again.

This is everything that I wanted to share on this topic, for know at least.
I need to put a small statement for everyone but also for me to read and remind myself about from time to time:
**The life you life is totally fine and don't let the lives of others tell you otherwise!**
You don't need to experience everything, and you don't need to do it in the same order as someone else.
Just life a happy life and progress at your own pace!
And with that I say thank you for reading.
Next time we will continue our main story line with an unhealthy coping mechanism.
Bye bye!