> **_IMPORTANT_**
>
> This post is part of a longer series.
> It is advised to at least read the disclaimer on the [intro post](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/).
> As posts are mostly in chronological order and can reference past posts it is highly recommended to read them in order starting on the [intro post](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/).

Our journey begins in the year 2000, when Sony released the PS2, the Concorde crashed and Bill Gates stepped down as CEO of Microsoft [(_Source_)](https://www.thepeoplehistory.com/2000.html).
If one thing can be taken away from my birth, then it's that I already knew what terrible years lie ahead of myself.
For that reason, or so I like to jokingly tell others, I stopped breathing after being born.
The doctors, however, convinced me to continue breathing, so thanks I guess, otherwise I wouldn't be able to joke about it now.
My birth was the only time ever I was in a hospital and I got the full ICU experience.
I guess I just wanted to experience everything at once and never come back.

My childhood has been pretty normal (at least I think).
From a very early age I was interested in and curious about technology, something that has stayed the same until today.
My parents used to record me and my brother when we were little.
Whenever something funny happened, the camera would be whipped out.
I, however, immediately stopped doing whatever I was doing as soon as I noticed.
I guess I've been camera-shy since the very beginning.
I hate being on camera **>:(**
Well... it's gotten better recently, but that may be a story for a later post.

Something else that I have developed since early on in my life are my observation skills.
Although some people might say that I'm quite oblivious a lot of times (which is true, but only when it comes to social stuff) I'd like to think that I still got it in me.
There is a recording when I was a little kid where I made myself a bottle to drink purely by observing how my parents were always doing it.
The only mistake I made was putting on the cap _before_ filling it with hot water.
Oh well, you can't win 'em all...
These skills combined with my interest in technology led me to tinker with a lot of materials at home.
Whenever we traveled somewhere and something caught my eye, I had to recreate it at home.
My parents tried a couple of times to teach my how to ski and I hated it with a passion.
But when we got back home I grabbed some yarn and glue and built a small ski lift because it fascinated me.

Even though I'm not a sports person in general, as you can probably tell from the last paragraph, a lot of my time was spent at our local football club (football as in the one where you kick a ball with your feet, not hand-egg, you weirdos).
My family has more or less always been a football family, spending a lot of time playing in and working for the club and I got dragged along.
I, for the life of me, cannot play football.
My hand/foot-eye coordination is terrible, which is also why I'm bad at throwing and catching things.
One notable thing to mention is that at the age of 8 I started announcing on the games of my dad's youth team.
I'm still helping out occasionally until this day, and it's definitely something that helped with my public speaking skills a lot.

School was pretty chill for me because I was always an easy learner.
This is in contrast to my brother who always struggled to keep up.
This leads us directly to one of the earliest negative things in this entire story.
Our parents always reminded my brother that he's stupid and that playing football is the only thing he can do.
On the other hand, I was always told how gifted and smart I am.
Without going into too much detail for now (trust me, we have a lot of posts to go) this led to my brother dropping out and me always being self-conscious.
To this day I hate it when people call me smart or just put me on a pedestal or anything like that.
Can't I just be an average boy?
There is also a saying that smart people lack social skills.
Something that resonates a little with me...

Rounding off this chunk of the story brings us to 2014, the year I changed schools.
I started attending a higher-education school focussed on computer science.
A dream come true for me.
It wasn't too far away from my old school either, just a couple more minutes of driving.
While my professional career started there, my personal life began its rapid downward spiral.
And this is where our journey ends for this post:
On a cliffhanger, just like my mental health at that point in time.