> **_IMPORTANT_**
>
> This post is part of a longer series.
> It is advised to at least read the disclaimer on the [intro post](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/).
> As posts are mostly in chronological order and can reference past posts it is highly recommended to read them in order starting on the [intro post](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/).

Ah, 2014, what a year that was.
I turned 14 (something you'd know if you can do basic math) and that means it was time to change schools.
Here in Austria there are a few options to choose from and I took the path of attending a school specialized on computer science.
While this meant that the curriculum would be focussed on that it also meant that school would last for five more years, until the age of 19, instead of just four.
I remember thinking that this will take ages and being 19 seemed so foreign and far away for me.
Now that I'm almost 23 and almost done with my bachelor's I can tell you this much: Time flew by more and more quickly with every year that passed.
But I didn't think ahead that far at the time, I was just vibing and enjoying school.

Yes, there, I said it: I enjoyed school.
Not having responsibilities and being able to attend a school where you are interested in the majority of the subjects is pretty cool in my opinion.
And since I was always a curious person I enjoyed learning about new things.
Because I already had some knowledge about software development, a major focus of my school, I had a head start.
This meant that I was able to help others and "teach" them.

Small side-story: Since I was little I liked role-playing school at home.
I had a combo white- and chalk-board at home, borrowed books and exercise CDs from teachers and made PowerPoint presentations.
I even made a small website (without any code, it was just plain static HTML) that served as the "lesson plan" for my fictional students.
And then I would stand there, in my room, talking to myself and imagining students listening to me.
I guess I was destined to be a teacher, but how this turned out will be discussed in later posts.
Something else that I won't go into now is my fantasy world in general.
Just as a heads-up: There is a lot going on in my brain and for the first time I'm not ashamed but rather excited to share this with others.
But we all have to wait just a bit longer **;)**

With that out of the way, let's get back on track with our story, shall we?
As stated in [_1. I, Lonely and the modern world_](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/) I like to joke around all the time.
Now for a little brain exercise: If we take the following things and put them together, what will be the result?

* Always jokes around, even at the expense of others
* Easy learner
* Already knows a lot about what is being taught at school
* Has a fantasy world that he spends way too much time in
* New school, new people; doesn't know anyone

If you guessed "isolation" then you are correct, if not, don't be ashamed!
You might ask "that escalated quickly, how did we get here?", and that is an excellent question indeed.
But I wouldn't write a blog about this if it would be easy, silly you...
So, let me explain.
Others would quickly notice that I'm helpful and already know some stuff.
That meant that they can ask me for help and I'd stop what I'm doing and help them with whatever they needed.
So at least when it came to coding stuff I was "the guy" to ask.
Combined with me joking about others and often saying rude stuff about them this led to people just asking for help but otherwise not associating that much with me.
Well... apart from the few that I got along with or who were also joking about me, making us even in the "making fun of each other" department.

All in all I did not have to invest a lot of time into school outside of it, meaning that I had a lot of free time.
Because of my escape into my fantasy world and the fact that others would only message me about school stuff I did not really have a social life.
This, however, did not bother me at the time.
I mean, people did like me in some way, shape or form and I just spent my time in my head or coding away or playing games.
Looking back now though reveals a sad truth: I did not have symptoms, and it did not affect me at the time, but I started isolating myself.
And since this time in a persons life is quite important for self-identity and development, isolation is very dangerous.

The first two years in this school went by pretty normal.
Everything sort of stayed the same for me.
While the others were hanging out with each other outside of school I just continued on on my own.
It did not feel wrong or sad or anything like that.
It was just how life was for me.
In Austria this is also the age where people have their first big encounters with substance consumption: Smoking and drinking.
This will be a topic in a future post, because it has played a slightly bigger role in my story and plays together with other stuff, so I'll stick to the most important stuff for now.
Growing up in a football club meant two things for me:

1) Everyone was drinking and a lot were wasted after every match-day
2) Everyone was smoking and at the end of the day you can see the fog in the room

I attribute my aversion to smoking and drinking at least partially to that.
However: Being alone and not going out / socializing meant that there weren't many opportunities to start consumption anyway.
Even though this eventually affected me mentally, as you will read about in the future (*wink *wink _FOMO_), looking back there is one major thing to say:
I'm glad I never started drinking or smoking.
A lot of people turn into addicts at a young age because they turn to smoking, drinking or even drugs in order to cope with their problems.
I'm proud to have made it through life without any of that and it took me a long time to realize that.

With the second year of school coming to an end, so is this post.
We are taking a small break here (or maybe you're already continuing with the next post, I don't know) since there is a slight change of tone in our story.
2017, or the third school year, was the beginning of the end.
Well, not really, but you know what I mean.
Let's just say that isolation together with a lost interest in the only thing you invest your time in is not a great combo.
But we shall explore that in the next post - peace out!