> **_IMPORTANT_**
>
> This post is part of a longer series.
> It is advised to at least read the disclaimer on the [intro post](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/).
> As posts are mostly in chronological order and can reference past posts it is highly recommended to read them in order
> starting on the [intro post](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/).

The last year of school.
Just a few more months until graduation and I'm finally done.
The thought of this felt unreal at first.
Time seemed to have flown by quickly at this point.
The last few months have been uplifting for me and whats to come seemed even more promising, at first that is.
Let's do this.

The school year started with a tradition: The class-representative vote.
To set the scene, here is a summary of the current situation.
I have been "the guy" that already knows a lot and is quite extroverted.
I joke around a lot, entertain the class and also make fun of others a lot of the time.
I'm also quite outgoing when talking to the teachers.
And yet, I have never been a candidate for the vote.
I always had self-doubt and anxiety when thinking about it.
But this year was different.

I had a chat with K at the end of the summer break, if she'd candidate again (she got elected the year prior).
While being unsure at first she eventually said yes.
With my own confidence boost I decided to go for it as well.
On election day all candidates had to give a small speech about why everyone should vote for them.
Well... it wasn't mandatory.
It's just a thing we'd been doing since the very beginning, and it was always quite funny.
I still remember vaguely what I said when it was my turn.
Something along the lines of "I've been talking shit for the last few years - now it's time to take on some
responsibility".
And after all the votes were counted, we had a winner: me!
And K was elected as my vice.

Being a class representative does not really grant you a lot more than being a regular student.
You get to talk to the teachers whenever the class complains about something.
There are, however, two extra responsibilities / privileges when you are elected in the last year:

* You have to give a speech at the graduation ceremony
* You are responsible for coordinating class reunion meetings

Two things that I did not really care about at the time since these were problems for future me.
Starting the school year with this victory was a big moral boost though.
And since K was my vice we got to work together which I'm definitely not complaining about.
I have mentioned her quite a bit now, huh.
Well, for the first time since basically forever (2014 to be exact, you should know this if you've been paying
attention) I had someone close to me.
I felt accepted the way I was - or at least the way I portrayed myself to others.
I wanted to be the funny, happy guy who cares and helps others all the time.
And it seemed like I was that person.
But on the inside I was still very much broken.
Getting to know K more and spending more time with her felt awesome.
Dare I put it into writing: _I had a friend._

I felt really happy and had a lot of joy.
Once my rationality caught up a bit with my feelings I knew that I wasn't all alone anymore.
But something weird started to happen.
I was quite overwhelmed by my newfound emotions.
I had a friend, someone close, after years of isolation.
But... I'm a boy and she's a girl...
What if... there could be more?
And you now might come to the conclusion of "woah there young and horny buddy, chill out for a second".
Honestly, wise words!
And for a change I actually thought the same thing back then.
Do I actually have feelings for her?
Or am I just excited to have a friend?
Should I be honest about this or keep quiet?

I think the first step I took was very smart.
I told someone else first.
Let me introduce you to J (these letters will probably get confusing very soon - oh boy).
J is a girl from the other class and good friends with K.
She can probably help me out here, right?
And she did and gave me the only helpful advice that you can give to someone in this situation: Wait and figure yourself
out before saying something wrong.
Bless your heart for helping me through this!
I did do some thinking but not for a very long time.
I just HAD to tell K, I couldn't resist.
Let me tell you... it was not beneficial for our young and fragile friendship.
But nothing ended there, it was just a bit awkward for a little.
Slight foreshadowing: The future tempted me with a similar situation.
And with everything I have learned from my friendship with K I am way more careful now.
But all of this will be part of a future post (we must stay chronologically, you know).

Aaaaanyway... moving on.
I slowly got into the friend group and started hanging out a bit more with others.
Eventually I joined them when going to the cinema and stuff like that.
Simple things, I know, but to me this meant the world!
This is where I draw the line for this episode of "young white boi struggles through life".
We are ending on quite a positive note here.
And to keep the mood up, the next post will be another intermission about a very strange but fun topic.

So stay tuned for that.
After that however, things take a dive for the worse.
Rapidly.
But let me tell you this much: After that post it will generally be uphill from there onwards.
There are still a few setbacks - even at the time of writing this I am going through a little difficult phase again.
But for the most part we've made.
Or I guess, past me made it.
After August 2019 - the time that I was at my absolute lowest point in life - we can reflect and grow together.
See you soon on the next post!