> **_IMPORTANT_**
>
> This post is part of a longer series.
> It is advised to at least read the disclaimer on the [intro post](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/).
> As posts are mostly in chronological order and can reference past posts it is highly recommended to read them in order
> starting on the [intro post](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/).

I want to start this off by saying that this post will be very personal.
You might ask "hasn't this entire blog been personal"?
Yes it has, but not to the extent of this post.
Chronologically it is about the time in my life that I was at my lowest.
I am not proud of the person I was, in fact I'd like to forget about past me.
But I can't - it's part of my story, part of me.
And to just turn a blind eye and act like it never happened is also not good.
I have to face my past and come to terms with it.
Only then will I be able to learn from it, be a better person and move on in life.
So without further ado, let's get into it, shall we?

We ended [7. Calm before the storm](/blog/2023-02-10-mental7/) with me sharing my feelings with K.
As mentioned this did not go too well.
What was confusing / disappointing at the time (and still is confusing to this day) is that she did not say _no_ to a
relationship.
But rather, that she wasn't ready, but that it had nothing to do with me.
I did not know what to make of that and always had hopes of her feelings changing.
Maybe a direct "no, never ever" would have been more helpful but there's no going back now.

Our friendship had a little dip afterwards, but it still went on.
Very soon I had my first ever encounter with something very unpleasant.
I still liked her a lot - after all feelings don't just suddenly disappear just because the other person does not feel
the same way.
And I wanted to hang out with her and do stuff together.
But she was reluctant and wanted to do stuff together with others rather than it being just the two of us.
This made me very sad, to say the least.
One evening we were texting and she said that she's meeting up with someone else to go and play billiards.
New character has entered the story: A, male.
They were already quite close with each other, and they were hanging out together.
This very information triggered a reaction that I have never experienced before in my life.
With a thousand thoughts rushing through my mind every second, heart rate rapidly increasing and breathing suddenly
being very difficult I was overwhelmed.
After a couple of minutes I recovered and slowly realized what had happened: I had a panic attack.
Spoiler alert: This won't be the last time that I had one of these.
Over the course of the next few months I would experience about a handful more.

Moving on, for now.
This first encounter was an early sign of a deeper underlying problem.
I attributed it to not wanting to lose my new friend.
This was a real concern for me, since it was the last school year, and we might lose contact after graduation, meaning
that I would be all alone again.
I mentioned that in the future a similar situation will happen again and this "having a friend and soon maybe not seeing
them anymore" also repeats itself.
Since I also had feelings for her I had the inner urge to always know what she's up to.
I hate saying this "out loud" (well writing it down counts) but I was starting to become controlling and manipulative.
I constantly wanted to know if she is going out with someone else and if, for a change, she was, I would react quite
strongly to that.
I wanted to be the one she hangs out with and shares her feelings with.
I would ask her personal questions to get to know her better, but she wouldn't open up to me.
I mean, why would she?
I wasn't a great person to be around, so why would she trust me with personal stuff?
At the time I did not realize this and just made things worse by keep being pushy and nosey.
This got so worse that my behaviour got more and more childish over time.

In the meantime I got a bit closer to J and A and started sharing my feelings with them as well.
It sort of became my thing to go to them whenever I did something wrong with K.
The Clusterfuck of bad behavior continued when I started texting with an ex of A.
In hindsight this was a stupid idea from the very start.
But by now you should know that everything I did was stupid at its core.
The dynamic between K, A and me was getting worse and worse.
Eventually I started crying around about unimportant stuff like who is whos best friend and "I wanna be your best
friend" and blah blah blah.
Did I really have nothing more important to do in life?
One thing to say here is: It is impressive that they, especially K, kept up with my bullshit for so long.

So let's get to how it ended...
One week after our post-graduation trip to Croatia it was game over for me.
It was another stupid argument about being "left-out" or she no longer liking me.
Why?
Well you see, in Whatsapp, our main form of communication, you can block people from seeing your online status and
profile picture.
And she hid this information from me.
And after a few angry messages back and forth it was done, for good.
That would be it for us and our journey together.
Over the next few days I would try to message her and tell her that I'm sorry.
But nothing I did helped, she made her decision and it was the right decision.
Of course, I didn't think that at the time.
Over the next month I would have A as support on my side.
Meanwhile, J was preparing to move away to the US for a year.
Eventually, in the middle of August I have crossed the line with A as well.
All the bridges have been burned.
But why, what happened?
Well, first of all, they were still friends, so given the situation arguments were bound to happen.
And now onto the stupid reason why I also had so strong feelings against the two:
I was convinced that they were secretly dating.
It did not make any sense at all, but I was still convinced.

Rounding off the story part of this post...
I remember that week in August were I was at my absolute lowest.
Existing basically felt like just being skin and emptiness inside.
This concludes the story.
I now want to go into a few things about my behavior in a bit more detail because the story itself is a very brief
summary.
It isn't the worst summary, but I could go into way more detail and still not do it justice.
Now onto my main points that I want to keep here for you to see and for me to look at and remind myself about.

**Being dependent on a single person is not healthy** - for you and the other person.
They aren't always available when you need them - they have a life of their own.
And they aren't trained professionals - constantly dumping your shit on them has negative effects on them too!
You need to find a healthy balance between being open with someone and not draining them.

**You cannot own someone else.**
No matter how much you like someone, they are still an individual with their own life.
They can do whatever they want, with whoever they want, whenever they want.
They do not have any obligation to tell you and you have no right in being mad, sad, upset or anything like that.

**Respect peoples boundaries.**
Just because you are quite open about yourself does not mean that others are too.
Being a curious person is not helpful, but it is also not impossible to just resist asking questions.
If someone does not want to talk about something then let it go - it's none of your business.
Make them feel comfortable and welcomed.
If they trust you then they will open up eventually, if they feel like you should know.
And just because someone does not want to share something with you or answer a question does not mean that there is a
deeper meaning behind it.
In almost all cases it just means that they are not comfortable sharing this with you.

**Don't be jealous.**
Now this is a hard one, I know.
But beating yourself up because someone is hanging out with someone else instead of you isn't helpful.
In fact, it is the complete opposite.
Why would someone hang out with you, if you always act up when they don't?

**Life your own independent life.**
Rounding this off is this last point.
You need to accept and love yourself the way you are first.
You need to be comfortable with yourself and life an independent life.
If you manage to do that then friends and partners are an extra bonus.
They make life even better, but they are not 100% required.
Your mental well-being is your own responsibility - you can't force others to maintain it.

Alright, that's it.
My brain is drained, I cannot think of a coherent sentence anymore.
I have not much more to say other than "I'm sorry".
I can't change the past and I can't magically make it all go away.
But I can learn from my mistakes and improve.
And I can make sure to never hurt someone like this again.
See you in the next one, take care!