> **_IMPORTANT_**
>
> This post is part of a longer series.
> It is advised to at least read the disclaimer on the [intro post](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/).
> As posts are mostly in chronological order and can reference past posts it is highly recommended to read them in order
> starting on the [intro post](/blog/2023-02-03-mental1/).

New school year new me, right? RIGHT? WRONG! Well... not entirely.
It was a new me that emerged but not in the way you'd think.
Are you confused yet?
If no, how? I want to know your secrets.
If yes, then continue reading.

The third school year started just like the others, almost...
We started out with three classes, each about 34ish people.
Due to drop-outs our class got merged with another.
This meant that there were two subgroups and it took a bit until everyone got used to each other.
The entire group (or at least the majority) only started bonding the year after but things did improve quickly in this
year as well.
Since it was the third year of five this meant that we've made it half-way.
Or to look at it the pessimistic way: There is just as much time left as we have already spent here.

In that point in time I spent my free time just working on hobby projects.
Or rather on one big project: Developing my own programming language.
_A link to this will follow when I get around to writing the project entry post about it._
I stopped doing anything else in my free time, I didn't even play any games at all.
It was just school, school work and coding, all day, every day.
This led to an important and yet devastating realization: I cannot and don't want to work as a full-time developer.
I cannot imagine myself sitting at a desk for 40h a week, staring into a screen and typing away.
I spent so much time with my hobby that I started hating it.

I swore to myself that I will not be attending university because I did not want to spend another 3-5 years learning
about stuff.
I also did not want to work as a developer for someone else because of the anxiety of the application process at
companies.
This left me with the obsession of needing to create "the big idea" that would allow me to be self-employed.
I've always pressured myself into starting big / crazy projects that I'd never be able to finish in the hopes of
creating something remarkable.
At the end of it all I was burnt and stressed out.

Now lets play another round of "combine and piece together".
If we take "half-way through school", "no interest in the job you're currently being educated for" and "burnt out", what
do we get?
Correct: An existential crisis about what to do with your life in the future.
Suddenly the dream I had, that I started working towards for the last few years, was gone.
I did not know what to do with myself - I felt useless and obsolete.
I took a little break from software development and tried to spend my free time differently.
This mostly consisted of watching an increasing amount of YouTube and spending more time in my fantasy world, away from
everyone else.
I eventually did regain some interest in programming again, but it was far away from how much I loved it previously.

The project in question, that got me back on track, was my "voices echo" project.
I recorded my own voice saying various words and phrases and then stitched it together live for three purposes:

1. Time announcement
2. Rail connection announcement
3. Weather forecast announcement

Basically my voice could tell you the current time or generate random railway connections and announce them in the style of our national railway service provider (I like trains, leave me alone) or announce randomly generated weather forecasts.
If you want to know more about this check out the projects post, _whenever I get around to writing it_.

Now lets get to the nitty-gritty stuff and talk about how all of this affected me mentally.
After all, this is a blog about mental health.
One could imagine that losing the one perspective you had for your future is not a great experience.
And you'd be right in thinking that that happened to me.
With what you should know by now about me it shouldn't be a surprise when I say that not knowing what to do in my free
time was not beneficial to my overall situation.
Since I spent my time outside of school pretty much just coding, I felt empty when that stopped.
Without anyone to reach out to I was alone with my struggles and for the first time it started actively affecting me in
my day-to-day life.
This school year also concluded with the worst grades I had so far.

A particularly draining periode every year are the summer holidays.
My mental well-being depended on the interactions I had at school, since I did not have a social life outside of that.
During the summer break I did not see anyone on a daily basis.
In fact, I saw no-one at all for a bit over two months.
By birthday is always at the start of the summer holidays and its always that time of the year, where I think to
myself "I've aged another year and still haven't done X".
A future post about the _fear of missing out (FOMO)_ will go into more detail about what I mean by that.
Let's just say that the average 17-year-old has typically experienced more than I had at the time (or even at the time
of writing this lol).
About a week or so after my birthday is where I'd officially mark the beginning of me being depressed.
Let me get this straight and remind you: **I am not a professional**.
I'm saying that I was depressed but I'm not qualified to actually say that.
Self-diagnosis can be very dangerous!
If you are struggling: **Go see a professional and talk to them about it**.
With that disclaimer out of the way, let's continue.

I still remember that night where I was laying in bed, entrenched in my own thoughts and started crying uncontrollably.
I also remember what actually kicked me into this hole.
Do you remember the movie "Project X"?
It was a couple 17-year-olds throwing a party that got out of hand.
I never watched it, but my brother did and I remembered one of the songs that got used in
it: [Heads will roll from the Yeah Yeah Yeahs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=auzfTPp4moA).
Anyway, with the FOMO I mentioned and me being 17, just like the characters, it was the perfect combo for disaster.
One actor of the main characters, [Thomas Mann](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thomas_Mann_(actor)), especially intrigued
me.
One thing that stood out to me was his age when he started acting: 17.
Seeing a pattern?
Basically the quick summary is that I felt shit about being a normal 17-year-old because I thought that I needed to have
figured everything out and be popular.
Look... mental health struggles can be so painfully stupid sometimes and yet these struggles are real and have huge
consequences.
Amidst all this chaos I want to mention one positive thing:
Through Thomas Mann I found a movie that was really great and sad to watch and if you have some spare time go watch it.
It's called [Me and Earl and the Dying Girl](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Me_and_Earl_and_the_Dying_Girl_(film)).
I myself should re-watch it and have a good cry some time again.
The remaining summer break was me basically coping with my new-found struggles.
I can't remember anything in particular that happened.

Let's somehow bring this mess back on track for the overall story.
Okay, let's go.
Summer break is coming to an end and the fourth year is nearly upon us.
Before the break ended I made a small discovery.
Well... actually two discoveries.
I discovered two people that I look up to and through that learned some important lessons and gained a new passion.
But since this post is already long you'll have to wait until the next one.
Actually, until the one after that.
The next one will be a small intermission about a very dark topic.
But after we've gotten that out of the way things seem to be looking up for our hero.

Have a glass of water, stand up and stretch or just take a small break from your screen.
Self-care is important and since reading my story should also be at least a small learning experience I feel like I need
to mention this.
If you're well cared about then you may continue onwards...